What you learnt inside the class?

--- Week1

 Morning Session : Had an introduction to software engineering , discussed about types of users learnt about satisfaction curves , dissatisfiers,delighters and all,discussed about course structure and were instructed to modify Pokemongo game
 
 Afternoon Session : Formed groups and discussed about how to improve the game , how can that be made interesting to users of different age groups
and we were asked to explain our opinions in teams and talked also about viertual reality augmented reality

How this game can be useful ? how can the game can be improved further what are the things missing in the game ?

Also introduced the term quality.....


--- Week2

 Morning Session : Discussed about the term quality how to decide which product to buy.How to choose , discussed also about tradeoffs 
 
 Meaning of quality - the standard of something as measured against other things of a similar kind; the degree of excellence of something.
Had a discussion on functional programming

In manufacturing, a measure of excellence or a state of being free from defects, deficiencies and significant variations. It is brought about by strict and consistent commitment to certain standards that achieve uniformity of a product in order to satisfy specific customer or user requirements. 
standard defines quality as "the totality of features and characteristics of a product or service that bears its ability to satisfy stated or implied needs." If an automobile company finds a defect in one of their cars and makes a product recall, customer reliability and therefore production will decrease because trust will be lost in the car's quality.

Afternoon Session : Discussed about quality again and also about projects ,  were asked to form groups for projects
asked to think about projects and submit.

Discussion on why Software products dont have any validity period where as other things have that ? 

Introduced to the term "Lakes rivers and oceans - Twists and tales"



--- Week3

Morning Session : Discussed again on quality , software engg and engg ? How software engg is connected to engg....
Different aspects of software engg,Article by Djkstra and blends of Software engg also had a debate on whether software engg is actually engg or not
"Is Functional programming coming back" ?

Afternoon session : VArious flavours of software engg ,various roles in the industry and challenges faced by the employees.

Had a discussion on how software industry is silmilar to Movie making and how it is dissimilar to this ?
our own thoughts on this after that asked about the status of the projects.


TUTORIAL-1 (---- By Arihanth gupta)
 Had a brief discussion on compile time of a code in Python and C++ Tradeoffs and which is better in what aspect
 Learnt various technologies trending in the market.Functional programming briefup
 Why Python is preferred. Is python an interpreter?
How to get on with the Projects.... and also about the things happening in Big player companies like microsoft,google and all
How to create a good project? COurse logistics and all such related stuff



------ Week 4 :

Morning session : The most wonderful session till date :) We have expiry date for everything what about Software ?? This question amazed me and made me think beyond the class
Software engineering----> Factors that infuence !
Pro's and con's of each of the cycles
Introduced to Waterfall model, LIfe cycle model
and were asked to give about life cycle of our own project and Life cycle of Natural things Vs Life cycle of man made things.

" U can't get what u want without knowing what u want "
also discussed about Quality Requirements and security domain.

Heard the success story of Toyota and were asked to read the most exciting part of the class :)

Afternoon Session : 
Discussed about hackathon ----> About to design a game in Education domain mainly for students learning in the schools
and 24 hackathon this october
and after that were asked to draw about representing Users,Requirements and constraints....
one rep is to draw venn diagrams 
but i think the best is to draw 3 sets and relate all the 3 with each other

Also were asked to lsit out the requirements of Facebook
and the requirements are of ~ 10^6 scale for Airbus.

(Stand rational towards everything !!) So deep statement unlike it looks. and were asked to finalise our projects by sunday and also to think about Individual projects 


---- Week 5 

Morning session :

 The trend is shifting from traditional models to agile models.Agile models don't mean that traditional processes are not being followed.It only means that the drawbacks of traditional models like getting stuck at the documentation phase, not being able to adapt to newer technologies is being overcomed by iterating over the waterfall model many a times.
 There is a high amount of risk involved with agile life cycles.But there is high-value being delivered in the end.
 No model is perfect and for us to choose a model, we have to keep in mind the various factors,influences related to our project and make the tradeoffs.
 In pair programming, a member of the group only codes and the other member thinks and reviews the code.Then, they change roles.
 In an incremental model, modules are designed, developed and tested in an incremental fashion.
 There are numerous reasons why a software project can fail, we cannot predict its success.
 
 Afternoon session :
 
 In the scrum(agile) model, each day, members of a team have a group meeting in the morning discussing the tasks that would be finished by them during that day. It is about dividing a project into smaller blocks which can be completed in a day's/a few hours time.This process is done for 30 days to deliver the product.
 Whether or not a project requires a project manager or not depends on many factors like the size, complexity of the project and so on. But as software developers, we must know how to manage projects.This is done by Software estimation, scheduling and tracking.
 No two software projects can be the same.
 Software quality comes with tradeoffs. Outside code(reused code) affects the quality of the software.
 Estimates must be done iteratively and also effort estimation for each task is important.
 WBS for every task must be defined.A project can be estimated based on the lines of code(LOC), function points, feature points or a combination of these or none of them.LOC is a popular metric but not often the most accurate one.


Week 7 :


 User interface(UI) design is as important as the backend functionality of the software.A person who designs/tests the usability of interfaces is known as a Usability engineer.A perfect design is a combination of value and experience.Some ways in which we can ensure a better UI is assuming the user base through personas, making it simple and convienient for the user to use the software, converting error messages into users' terminology, making the elements of the UI intuitive. A particular desgin that is prevalant in the industry and has become a standard for certain interfaces is known as a metaphor.
















